1.What is LILO?
  LILO is a boot loader for Linux. It is used mainly to load the Linux operating system into main memory 

2.What is a swap space?
  Swap space is a certain amount of space used by Linux to temporarily hold some programs that are running concurrently. 
  This happens when RAM does not have enough memory to hold all programs that are executing.

3.How can you find out how much memory Linux is using?
  # cat /proc/meminfo
  # free - m

4.What is a typical size for a swap partition under a Linux system?
  The preferred size for a swap partition is twice the amount of physical memory available on the system. 
  If this is not possible, then the minimum size should be the same as the amount of memory installed.

5.How do you refer to the parallel port where devices such as printers are connected?
  Whereas under Windows you refer to the parallel port as the LPT port, under Linux you refer to it as /dev/lp . 
  LPT1, LPT2 and LPT3 would therefore be referred to as /dev/lp0, /dev/lp1, or /dev/lp2 under Linux.

6.What is the maximum length for a filename under Linux?
  Any filename can have a maximum of 255 characters. This limit does not include the path name,
  so therefore the entire pathname and filename could well exceed 255 characters.

7.What are environmental variables?
  Environmental variables are global settings that control the shell's function as well as that of other Linux programs. 
  Another common term for environmental variables is global shell variables.

8.What are the different modes when using vi editor?
  1.Insert 2.Edit 3.Esc

9.What is redirection?
  Redirection is the process of directing data from one output to another. 
  It can also be used to direct an output as an input to another process.

10.What is grep command?
   grep a search command that makes use of pattern-based searching.
   It makes use of options and parameters that are specified along with the command line and applies this pattern in searching the required file output.

11.What is the command to calculate the size of a folder?
   To calculate the size of a folder uses the command du –sh folder1.

12.How can you find the status of a process?
   Use the command # ps ux

13.What are the contents of /usr/local?
   The /usr/local directory contains the locally installed files.
   The importance of the directory is when files are stored on some network.
   The directory is used for storing software packages installed from a source or software not officially accompanying the distribution.

14.Seven Types of linux files
    1.- : regular file            
          The regular file is a most common file type found on the Linux system.
          text files, images, binary files, shared libraries, etc. You can create a regular file with the touch command
    2.d : directory
          Directory is second most common file type found in Linux. Directory can be created with the mkdir command
    3.c : character device file
          Character and block device files allow users and programs to communicate with hardware peripheral devices. 
    4.b : block device file
          Block devices are similar to character devices. They mostly govern hardware as hard drives, memory, etc. # ls -ld /dev/sda
    5.s : local socket file
          Local domain sockets are used for communication between processes. Generally, 
          they are used by services such as X windows, syslog and etc. # ls -ld /dev/log
    6.p : named pipe
          Similarly as Local sockets, named pipes allow communication between two local processes. 
          They can be created by the mknod command and removed with the rm command.
    7.l : symbolic link
          With symbolic links an administrator can assign a file or directory multiple identities. 
          Symbolic link can be though of as a pointer to an original file. There are two types of symbolic links: Hard / soft link

15.Inode number
   An inode is an entry in inode table, containing information ( the metadata ) about a regular file and directory.
   An inode is a data structure on a traditional Unix-style file system such as ext3 or ext4.
   Inode number also called index number, it consists following attributes
   
   1.File types ( executable, block special etc )
    1.Permissions ( read, write etc )
    2.UID ( Owner )
    3.GID ( Group )
    4.FileSize
    5.Time stamps including last access, last modification and last inode number change.
    6.File deletion time
    7.Number of links ( soft/hard )
    8.Location of ile on harddisk.
    9.Some other metadata about file.
  
  2.Check Inodes on Filesystem
    # df -i /dev/sda1
    Note : In case of inodes full on any filesystem, you can’t create a new file on disk even you have enough free space. 

  3.Find Inode number of File
    # ls -il  myfile.txt

  4.When you are copy a file from one location to another location inode number will change for move are rename the file no impact.

  5.Free Inodes on Filesystem
    In the case of inodes are full. You need to remove unused files from the filesystem to make Inode free. 
    There is no option to increase/decrease inodes on disk.
    It only created during the creation of filesystem on any disk.

  6.Changing Inode
    The only way to change the inode copy the file from one location to another there is no other way to change.

16.What is Sticky Bit?
   The sticky bit is used to indicate special permissions for files and directories.
   If a directory with sticky bit enabled will restrict deletion of the file inside it. 
   It can be removed by the root, owner of the file or who have to write permission on it. 
   This is useful for publically accessible directories like /tmp.

   chmod +t tecadmin.txt
   chmod 1777 tecadmin.txt

   Same for user SUID group using SGID