Patching
---------

A patch is a set of changes to a computer program or its supporting data designed to update, fix, or improve it. 
This includes fixing security vulnerabilities and other bugs, with such patches usually being called bugfixes or bug fixes, 
and improving the functionality, usability or performance.

Why we have to Patching
------------------------
1.Securing data
2.Bug fix
3.Avoid cyber attack
4.Improve performance of the server
5.Fix security vulnerabilities

Type of patches
---------------
1.Critical Updates
2.Security Updates 
3.Bug fixes 
4.Enhancement 
5.OS Updates 

If you are patching one / two server means use yum update 
If you have multiple server need to patch means using below mentioned utility

Manage engine patch manager plus

1.Download and install manage engine plus

2.The default webconsole username and passwd is admin,admin

3.click Agent Tab at the top and download linux agent copy to linux machine

4.Click scan of the webconsole and scan the linux machine

5.In the scan result select the Critical/important based on your priority select and install patche

6.You have schedule option also we can schedule


Patching 
--------
1.Check if the machine is a physical or VM. and check for System Information
  # dmidecode -t system
  # dmidecode -s system-product-name
  # lspci | grep -i vmware
  # dmidecode | less
  # cat /etc/info.server

2. Take System Backup
   Virtual machines,We can take a snapshot & revert to it in case required.
   For Physical machines, check for the ILO address & Take backup using tools if configured.for

3. On day of activity use your monitoring tool to acknowledge alerts.
4. Bring App and DB down on server.
5. Go for a simple reboot to ensure server doesn’t have any prior file system issues.
6. Update the kernel on the machine. It is preferable to go for --install instead of --update option.
7. Do a yum update for security and rest patches to complete the update.
8. Reboot the machine.
9. Once up, confirm the server is updated by uname -a and yum check-update.
10. Put server out of Maintenance mode once confirmed Application/DB is up and running.
11. In case of issue, kindly rollback using yum history 

Perform RollBack
----------------
1.rpm -Uvh --rollback '1 hour ago'

2.Check update history
  yum history

3.Check info of a particular update
  yum history info 46

4.To rollback to before update ID 47
  yum history rollback 46

5.Undo an update
  yum history undo 46

6.To repeat an update
  yum history repeat 46